CICD: Continous Integration Continous Deployment/Delivery:-
	 CI/CD is a set of best practices, principles, and tools that aim to automate
	 the process of integrating code changes and deploying applications to production 
	 in a more efficient and reliable manner.


 CICD comes into picture where-
	Unit Testing, Static Code Analysis, Code Quality/ Vulnerability, Automation, Reports, 
	 Deployment   stages are done automatically rather than doing manual.


Explain the Cicd Process From a Project:-

  * I used Version-Control(GitHub) as a source code repository and target platform is Kubernetes.
  * Let say user(Developer) who tries to Code commit to Version control system Repository.
  * And i used an Orchestrator Continous Integration Continous Delivery(CI/CD) like Jenkins.
    The reason foor using Jenkins is, whenever a code commits into the github repository, 
    Git webhook triggers the pipeline in our orchestrator (Webhook Connectivity)  it is a Continous Integration Part.
  * As part of CI Jenkins, there are multiple stages:-
	1) As part of the first stage, we will checkout the code(the code commit that the user had made).
	2) and will build code along with unit test cases(used MAVEN in Building, and unit testing framework to unit test). 
	3) Then we moved to code scanning(for scanning used Sonarqube repositroy for security / vulnerability).
	4) Because the target platform is Kubernetes, I try to build Docker Image (for this we use Dockerfile in the Github Repository).
	5) Once the image is build the next and important stage is image scaning(we will verify the image which is created Successfully or any vulnerability).
	6) After Image is created the next step is to push image onto Image registry(Dockerhub).
     For all these steps used Jenkins Declarative Pipeline.
  * The next is to get the image onto Kubernetes platform,  using the same Jenkins pipeline updated the Git repository with the image that created in last stage (Image push).
  *Using the Ansible(Configuration Managment tool) from updated repository , Deployed Image on to Kubernetes Cluster (Play with k8s, Minikube). 
